e0c9183cf4d3cc22d7342b00e6f14041|Denis Newman-Griffis|http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12922v1|Artificial intelligence is transforming the way we work with information across disciplines and practical contexts. A growing range of disciplines are now involved in studying, developing, and assessing the use of AI in practice, but these disciplines often employ conflicting understandings of what AI is and what is involved in its use. New, interdisciplinary approaches are needed to bridge competing conceptualisations of AI in practice and help shape the future of AI use. I propose a novel conceptual framework called AI Thinking, which models key decisions and considerations involved in AI use across disciplinary perspectives. The AI Thinking model addresses five practice-based competencies involved in applying AI in context: motivating AI use in information processes, formulating AI methods, assessing available tools and technologies, selecting appropriate data, and situating AI in the sociotechnical contexts it is used in. A hypothetical case study is provided to illustrate the application of AI Thinking in practice. This article situates AI Thinking in broader cross-disciplinary discourses of AI, including its connections to ongoing discussions around AI literacy and AI-driven innovation. AI Thinking can help to bridge divides between academic disciplines and diverse contexts of AI use, and to reshape the future of AI in practice.|arxiv
7d2ad24825b9a66a9ccdd41cf1be9a8f|André Platzer|http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11563v3|This perspective piece calls for the study of the new field of Intersymbolic AI, by which we mean the combination of symbolic AI, whose building blocks have inherent significance/meaning, with subsymbolic AI, whose entirety creates significance/effect despite the fact that individual building blocks escape meaning. Canonical kinds of symbolic AI are logic, games and planning. Canonical kinds of subsymbolic AI are (un)supervised machine and reinforcement learning. Intersymbolic AI interlinks the worlds of symbolic AI with its compositional symbolic significance and meaning and of subsymbolic AI with its summative significance or effect to enable culminations of insights from both worlds by going between and across symbolic AI insights with subsymbolic AI techniques that are being helped by symbolic AI principles. For example, Intersymbolic AI may start with symbolic AI to understand a dynamic system, continue with subsymbolic AI to learn its control, and end with symbolic AI to safely use the outcome of the learned subsymbolic AI controller in the dynamic system. The way Intersymbolic AI combines both symbolic and subsymbolic AI to increase the effectiveness of AI compared to either kind of AI alone is likened to the way that the combination of both conscious and subconscious thought increases the effectiveness of human thought compared to either kind of thought alone. Some successful contributions to the Intersymbolic AI paradigm are surveyed here but many more are considered possible by advancing Intersymbolic AI.|arxiv
2afc87e9708babfd6666c136b7f0d5e3|Yi-chieh Lee|http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07632v3|AI transparency is a central pillar of responsible AI deployment and effective human-AI collaboration. A critical approach is communicating uncertainty, such as displaying AI's confidence level, or its correctness likelihood (CL), to users. However, these confidence levels are often uncalibrated, either overestimating or underestimating actual CL, posing risks and harms to human-AI collaboration. This study examines the effects of uncalibrated AI confidence on users' trust in AI, AI advice adoption, and collaboration outcomes. We further examined the impact of increased transparency, achieved through trust calibration support, on these outcomes. Our results reveal that uncalibrated AI confidence leads to both the misuse of overconfident AI and disuse of unconfident AI, thereby hindering outcomes of human-AI collaboration. Deficiency of trust calibration support exacerbates this issue by making it harder to detect uncalibrated confidence, promoting misuse and disuse of AI. Conversely, trust calibration support aids in recognizing uncalibration and reducing misuse, but it also fosters distrust and causes disuse of AI. Our findings highlight the importance of AI confidence calibration for enhancing human-AI collaboration and suggest directions for AI design and regulation.|arxiv
a431541cdb3bccad75fb62be6f4405a2|Mehdi Mirakhorli|http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05075v1|This paper focuses on supporting AI/ML Security Workers -- professionals involved in the development and deployment of secure AI-enabled software systems. It presents AI/ML Adversarial Techniques, Tools, and Common Knowledge (AI/ML ATT&CK) framework to enable AI/ML Security Workers intuitively to explore offensive and defensive tactics.|arxiv
cd2ce73562c513ca0fa1ad15ab982e1c|Burak Turhan|http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15481v2|The rise in the use of AI/ML applications across industries has sparked more discussions about the fairness of AI/ML in recent times. While prior research on the fairness of AI/ML exists, there is a lack of empirical studies focused on understanding the perspectives and experiences of AI practitioners in developing a fair AI/ML system. Understanding AI practitioners' perspectives and experiences on the fairness of AI/ML systems are important because they are directly involved in its development and deployment and their insights can offer valuable real-world perspectives on the challenges associated with ensuring fairness in AI/ML systems. We conducted semi-structured interviews with 22 AI practitioners to investigate their understanding of what a 'fair AI/ML' is, the challenges they face in developing a fair AI/ML system, the consequences of developing an unfair AI/ML system, and the strategies they employ to ensure AI/ML system fairness. We developed a framework showcasing the relationship between AI practitioners' understanding of 'fair AI/ML' system and (i) their challenges in its development, (ii) the consequences of developing an unfair AI/ML system, and (iii) strategies used to ensure AI/ML system fairness. By exploring AI practitioners' perspectives and experiences, this study provides actionable insights to enhance AI/ML fairness, which may promote fairer systems, reduce bias, and foster public trust in AI technologies. Additionally, we also identify areas for further investigation and offer recommendations to aid AI practitioners and AI companies in navigating fairness.|arxiv
